README.md: Add examples for porting scalar code to wide data types (#60)
termhn/ultraviolet: README.md

The first thing to do is to convert the parameter types from scalar `Vec3` to wide `Vec3x8` and `f32x8`:

```rust
fn ray_sphere_intersect_x8(
    ray_o: uv::Vec3x8,
    ray_d: uv::Vec3x8,
    sphere_o: uv::Vec3x8,
    sphere_r_sq: uv::f32x8,
) -> uv::f32x8 {
```

Each call to the function will process 8 ray-sphere intersections in parallel. The first four lines of the function remain the same:

```rust
    let oc = ray_o - sphere_o;
    let b = oc.dot(ray_d);
    let c = oc.mag_sq() - sphere_r_sq;
    let descrim = b * b - c;
```

Despite this code being the same, the calculations for 8 rays and spheres will be carried out at the same time!

The next line of the scalar code tests the value of `descrim` to see if it is greater than `0.0`. When operating on 8 values at a time, the code cannot branch along two separate paths because the value of `descrim` for each of the 8 values may cause branching to different sets of operations. To support this we would need to convert back to scalar code and then we lose all the performance benefits of parallel processing.

> So, how do we convert this? It turns out, the trick is to do the calculations for both branches for all 8 lanes, and then filter the results with masks that select the correct values from the possibilities at the end.

Reviewer: I think it's important to note here that this decision-making process has some nuance. For example, depending on the frequency of divergence, it might be worth it to check whether all lanes are on one side or the other of the check and then branch accordingly. Those cases are relatively rare though

Author: I tried to comment on that a bit further down but I’ll add something in. Thanks for the suggestion about checking the common case being a strategy in such a situation.

Author: I made an attempt at this. I feel like it's a bit too verbose, but maybe it's useful. What do you think?

To create the mask for 8 lanes of `descrim` values with `0.0`:

```rust
    let desc_pos = descrim.cmp_gt(uv::f32x8::splat(0.0));
```

> In the true case, we do some more 8-lane parallel processing that looks like the scalar code:

Reviewer: This line is a little confusing... perhaps something more like

"In the true case of the original scalar version, we have more arithmetic operations that end up looking the exact same when we do them on the vectorized version:"

Author: For some reason my brain didn’t want to pull forth “arithmetic operations” yesterday. That’s much clearer.

Author: I applied your suggestion here.

```rust
    let desc_sqrt = descrim.sqrt();

    let t1 = -b - desc_sqrt;
```

And now in the scalar code we have another branch based on `t1 > 0.0`, so we apply the same technique, with a little bit extra:

```rust
    let t1_valid = t1.cmp_gt(uv::f32x8::splat(0.0)) & desc_pos;
```

The `& desc_pos` at the end does a bitwise and operation to combine the masks that say whether each of the lanes of `t1 > 0.0` are true or false, with those of whether each of the lanes of `descrim > 0.0` were true or false, and if both are true for a lane, then the mask value will be true for that lane in `t1_mask`, otherwise the value for the lane will be `false`. This is combining the nested logic.

The true case of the `t1 > 0.0` condition just returns `t1`, but the false case has some more calculation and branching that can be ported in a similar way:

```rust
    let t2 = -b + desc_sqrt;
    let t2_valid = t2.cmp_gt(uv::f32x8::splat(0.0)) & desc_pos;
```

This may sound like it could be slower than scalar code because this algorithm being applied to wide data types is doing all the calculations for both branches regardless of which is true, and you would be right!

> This approach is indeed a tradeoff and depends on the likelihood of branching one way or the other, and the cost of calculation of the branches. Due to the CPU being able to have all the data it needs to do the calculations, it can be and very often is significantly faster! As with all optimization, measurement tells the truth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This approach is indeed a tradeoff and depends on the likelihood of branching one way or the other, and the cost of calculation of the branches. However, even with an algorithm that is particularly branch-heavy like the ray-sphere intersection we're analyzing here, in practice, the benefits of being able to calculate multiple pieces of data in one often results in a net win! As with all optimization, measurement tells the truth.
```
